---
title: 'ODOC: cut'

date: 2006-01-11
url: /2006/01/11/odoc-cut-2/
categories:
  - ODOC

---
cut &#8212; CUT a specified part form the file and Print it on stdout.

Summary :

Print selected parts of lines from each file(s) to standard output. This command is mostly used in shell scripts(think I should write a tut?)

Examples :

> Create file1 with 10 columns (separated by TAB) of data for 10 lines and file2 with 10 columns (separated by space) of data for 10 lines.
> 
> $ cut -b2 file1 &#8212; Print only the byte in 2 position. Tab & Backspace are treated like a 1 byte char.
> 
> $ cut -b1,3,5 file1 &#8212; Print only the bytes in 1,3 & 5 positions.
> 
> $ cut -c2 file1 &#8212; Print only character in 2nd position. Normally same as -b option. But you can feel the difference only with multi-byte encodings (Unicode).
> 
> $ cut -f5 file1 &#8212; Print only the 6th field. TAB is default separator.
> 
> $ cut -f4- file1 &#8212; Print from 4th field to last field.
> 
> $ cut -f-5 file1 &#8212; Print from 1st field to 4th field.
> 
> $ cut -d&#8217; &#8216; -f3-5 file2 &#8212; Print only the fields from 3 to 5, which is separated by spaces.
> 
> $ cut -s -d&#8217; &#8216; -f2 file2 &#8212; Don&#8217;t print lines that don&#8217;t contain the delimiter,space (line without a delimiter is printed verbatim).
> 
> $ cut -f2-5,7-9 &#8211;output-delimiter=&#8217;,&#8217; file1 &#8212; In the output, field will be separated by &#8220;,&#8221; (Not by the default one).

Note:

  1. Use one, and only one of -b, -c or -f.
  2. Range or many ranges can be separated by commas.
  3. Range of Bytes/Chars/Fields can specified like this:

N == Only Nth byte, character or field.
  
N- == From Nth byte, character or field, to End of line.
  
N-M == From Nth to Mth (included) byte, character or field.
  
-M == From 1st to Mth (included) byte, character or field.

Read : man cut

<tags>odoc, cut, linux,gnu/linux, shell+scripts</tags>